an unprecedented international health
emergency never seen before in the
history of mankind a global pandemic
that has taken the world by storm more
than 1.3 million people infected with
the corona virus worldwide more than
74,000 deaths so far in 200 countries
and territories covered 19 has led to a
human tragedy of unimaginable
proportions
it has also caused a massive economic
disruptions amid the colossal public
health disaster when will the world come
out of discouraged is the global economy
now facing the deepest recession in
history
[Music]
it all started late last year that was
when the covert 19 virus first jump from
animals to humans in a wholesale seafood
market in the Chinese city of Wuhan
since then the virus has killed
thousands and infected hundreds of
thousands causing human devastation on
the scale never seen since the days of
the bubonic plague of Spanish flu
epidemics in the previous century the
pandemic has now spread across the globe
forcing governments to impose lockdowns
curfews and other emergency measures to
contain and spread apart from the health
crisis the total cost of the economic
disaster are incalculable flights have
disappeared from nations skies the
hospitality industry is in doldrums and
the supply chains are thoroughly
disrupted the world is now staring at an
economic crisis of immense proportions
the economy in Pakistan Mendes the
economic impact is gonna be massive we
haven't seen this before it is
unprecedented
the fact that the virus first hit China
known as the factory of the world
deepened the crisis as the epidemic
erupted in late January China first
imposed an immediate lockdown in Wuhan
and factories extended the Lunar New
Year holidays supply chains were
disrupted and the Chinese economy took a
major hit we've seen the this very
severe impact in terms of China's
economy the most recent economic data
that we've seen on China suggests that
in the first two months of this year
China's economy effectively came to a
standstill
so that has had knock-on effects
throughout the rest of the region
through supply chains being disrupted
through disruption to Chinese demand as
well because China is now a major export
market for a lot of countries in the
region unfortunately the disease broke
out in an Ohana which is a very key
logistics and delivery center for China
in its sense and they resulted in a
complete disruption of the global supply
chain and of course China being one of
the biggest exporters and manufacturers
economic activity was impacted very very
badly
though not typical of a virus that has
just jumped from animals to humans
it is transmitting at an alarming rate
infecting hundreds of thousands across
the world
an average person with the infection can
pass it on to several others and its
mortality rate is so so far higher than
the seasonal flu the combination of the
virus's ability to spread quickly and
cause serious illness has led to
uncertainty and panic China took the
brunt first with some 83,000 cases so
far and more than 3,300 deaths
this particular outbreak was first seems
to have first started in November last
year 2019 although in the earliest cases
it was not recognized as an outbreak but
by early December it was recognized that
there was an unusual pneumonia that was
circulating in in Wuhan many of the
patients associated with one particular
seafood market so that triggered an
investigation and that's how the whole
investigation into the outbreak started
but life now in Wuhan the original
epicenter of the pandemic is slowly
returning to normal
new infections and deaths have
disappeared and many of the victims are
taking the ordeal in their stride 19
year old student Miss Liu did not panic
at all but she had the virus she in fact
was expecting to be infected since her
mother got it earlier and finally both
of them were admitted to hospital dr. Jo
Jo each in so hollow so how did you find
out so you know wouldn't I find her
somehow
- ah - I know she might go beyond
uranium so holla Antonio de cine
sunshine young lady
is he eating ham how so eating is
required on doing quite kind of go in
sample see what your love is your house
your water zone should hunt animals onto
it that is a hard to entertain such a
high situation it on face Hong Jisoo day
isn't on her then she taught you how to
sit down watch it I do have so much who
like geometry and there's a hole just
nigga just to knew you had said home
know that he had your John I don't get
you ja ja da da da da this is so much
that one can enter your father here Josh
Josie Josie your comparison
upon her recovery miss Liu felt art when
she suddenly found herself inside a
stadium turned into a quarantine
facility what should gonna happen to
each angering so that she know she got
here one got other you go i'm synneve to
you God that you have another hole how
she resent how can we ensure our
offenders are not intruder come to a
decision
your faction ultimate are sitting see
I'm ginger - AHA situation scenario DM Y
oriented to my HSE area - 20 is calm
down no module to go a young guy ended
up in do it again
now her - a senior she Orien commercial
equipment paint SE kya hai : TN young
man so don't just do some faraway you
are yourself it will you say again woman
yo your swatch is a woman but a chili
bean do say young anyway
vámanos it's in turn the calendar
superheroines whatever Pecha Kucha those
who are free of the virus are slowly
regaining the health but the impact on
the health of the economy has been
colossal even for China the lockdowns
disrupted all sectors of the economy
causing a cascading effect across the
globe
the world's second largest economy was
already slowing down in the last quarter
when the virus struck covered 19 just
brought the economy almost to a
standstill on a short-term basis where
China is concerned we've actually
downgraded China's growth to
one-and-a-half percent for 2020 at the
start of the year we all thought China
was gonna grow at about 6 to 6 and a
half percent so the economic disruption
on a short-term basis has been
tremendous China's economy now accounts
for around 20 percent of the global
output unlike four percent in 2003 when
the SARS epidemic had erupted in the
region it has also become the world's
factory churning out products ranging
from phones to automobiles determining
the world demand for commodities such as
oil and copper
China only had like 463 million people
living the cities today China has 823
million people living in the cities
right in 2003 we didn't have so many
budget airlines today we have bachelor
Airlines all over the place right so
people can travel with relative ease
across countries across jurisdictions
across all time zones and that basically
means that that the infection levels are
always likely to be a lot higher today
compared to before as a virus sweeps
through China the hardest hit sectors
include Airlines automobiles tourism and
hospitality automobile sales at
dealerships crash 92 percent in February
compared with the same period last year
since China is the world's biggest car
market plummeting sales have an impact
worldwide car makers closed factories in
February slashing production drastically
in the first quarter the impact is felt
by one of the largest automobile spare
parts company in China the Minsk Group
established in 1992 the company caters
to customers in Japan Europe South Korea
China and the United States 55 year-old
Lillian truly chief operating officer of
mint group admits that the company was
totally unprepared for the crisis
[Music]
Jameel Total Annihilation
Thank You Romeo and the widget a truly
you go far
don't even chew you John she's a fire
piata not you are seeing each other
nice about Cahill I see what other to me
min has drawn up an emergency response
plan and is trying to cope with the
crisis as best as it can
being a large group the several units
across the nation
it has so far managed to avoid layoffs
in original engine so far with Alabama
Sudarshan that's a machine yo hammy or
Thailand et ha evil machine and nipple
cook user to moi cookie dough to your
hometown
how high is your sorry yeah ooh yeah no
imagine even tell me if you teach abroad
Jordan you're the cool amount at the
party so he has a job student are not to
say you guys
apart from big corporations such as mins
small businesses have been severely hit
as well
68 yo IV line started her own stage
productions company nine years ago and
was doing well her company's turnover
went up from ninety thousand Hong Kong
dollars in the first year to three
million Hong Kong dollars in 2017 then
the nightmare scenario emerged Mali only
go as easy as you can't be lurching both
mitosis happen inside of our signature
can you tell Tamar come on old in our
case let's out inside the truck consider
Lynch okay with all your life Pamela hey
lean against any holds you what you want
to see Romanenko game but I'll buy local
gingerly well yeah but how they put a
moment ago can you let all Lonard a
hodgepodge is out can Jonah
kick all my coming at in Talia hi motel
enjoy yeah I saw those Buddy Hackett in
Malibu this chocolate madam I can't tell
my technology you might enjoy yeah mom
tell you all the things we had in her
simple I mean cutting the logitech mark
on them
Kamala Ortega D commenting it Hyundai
the with some crime
Omo you found yeah Gamla so your hot
young got is drop focus on all new you
phenomenal yeah
[Music]
the pandemic has scented the world
economy into uncharted territory the
virus has now spread from China to other
parts of the world especially Europe
where it's leaving behind a trail of
death and economic collapse Italy
Germany Spain and France some of the
biggest European economies are
shell-shocked from the ensuing human and
material devastation how long will this
Spectre haunt the entire world
[Music]
April 20 20 more than three months after
the novel coronavirus was first
identified by China's health authorities
on December 31st 2019 China today seems
to be getting the virus under control
but the specter is now haunting the rest
of the world the epicenter the pandemic
has shifted from the east to the west
the US has now overtaken China in terms
of the total number of infections some
370 thousand cases and eleven thousand
deaths so far and rising after the u.s.
comes Europe where Italy has now become
the new epicenter with over 133,000
infections in some 17,000 deaths it's
followed by Spain with 137 thousand
cases and more than 13 thousand deaths
they are followed up by Germany with
some 104 thousand cases and almost 2,000
deaths in France with almost 100
thousand cases and some 9,000 deaths in
Asia Iran has so far bought the brunt of
the disease with some sixty thousand
five hundred cases and some four
thousand deaths but the situation in
Europe is dire indeed there are still no
signs of the epidemiological curve
flattening that is after a peak there is
no gradual slow down and an eventual
plateau
especially in Italy was equally severe
but now it is spreading to other
countries Spain is actually recording
and increasing numbers of register cases
Germany is also now at the center of the
of the contagion and it is gradually
spreading throughout Europe and also
elsewhere one reason why the virus
spread rapidly to Europe was that the
continent was slow to react to the
outbreak in China and as a result
experts say they were caught off guard
probably at the beginning there was some
undervaluation of the situation because
it's starting China but Italy probably
didn't take advantage of the time lag
between the China outbreak and the
outbreak in Italy to learn because this
is a learning experience
I think country should learn from the
countries that got the disease before
and how to deal with that so initially
there was some uncertainty and so even
policy measures were not fully clear but
then the government took the
responsibility and the leadership of of
deciding what to do and there was
initially a lockdown of some areas which
was a really sizable economic impact
because these areas are the most
productive they the wealthier region in
Italy not northern Italy and then of
course the situation didn't stop and
continue to spread so the government had
no choice but to effectively lock down
the whole country
now the European economic engine has
come to a virtual halt of the eight
countries that account for more than
50,000 cases of curve at nineteen five
are the largest economies of Europe and
also among the biggest in the world
still at this point in time is not
possible to assess the full impact of
the disease in Europe
it really depends on the infrastructure
and the ability of governments to
actually move to mobilize the entire
economy in in in the Chinese example you
saw that it could move very very quickly
right so they locked down a city the
entire province of like 65 million
people within a matter of like two days
and they were very very effective in
enforcing the lockdown itself in Europe
you have problems with that because of
the fact that it's a European Union you
have freedom of movement freedom of
labor freedom of capital across all
countries so enforcing that within
Europe itself is gonna be a lot more
difficult where European infrastructure
is concerned with the perhaps the
exception of some of the northern
European countries infrastructure in the
other European countries is not up to
the kind of standards that we would
think they should be if you have a weak
link in your infrastructure where health
care is concerned it will be exposed and
only will it be exposed it will be
motive multiplied many times over the
economic impact is gonna be massive
because if you think about the downturn
there was a rating place at the end of
last year there was basically the result
of trade wars and and a collapsing
confidence lack of investment and so
forth Italy was already contracting the
Italian economy was already contracting
at the end of last year I think Italy
has been severely hit and and it's gonna
be and probably the impacts gonna be in
the order of ten percent again in the
first two quarters of this year overall
okay cumulative and and then there would
be some recovery in the second half so
the overall outcome for the year I think
is because between minus 6 and minus 8
percent for Italy the rest of the of
Europe depends how the situation unfolds
but at the moment it looks like it will
be as severe as in Italy so my guess is
they're the same magnitude will apply to
other European countries and overall for
Europe the moment you have locked downs
in an economy the economic impact is
huge and there will be companies that
will go bankrupt all the airlines that
go bankrupt there will be people losing
their jobs and Europe is several weeks
if not months behind where China was so
you're probably now in Europe talking
about a period it's going to take you
through at least until the end of May
before you start seeing some form of
recovery and some form of return return
to normalcy in the economies though the
virus has impacted nearly all industries
some are facing a more serious threat
than others one of them is the airlines
and travel sector tens of thousands of
flights vanish from the skies and weeks
impacting already struggling economies
from late January to the middle of
February daily departures and arrivals
for domestic and international flights
in China dropped to just 2000 from some
15,000 Chinese travelers account for
about 20 percent of all tourism spending
according to the UN World Tourism
Organization
for happy star travel agency in Hong
Kong the outbreak came as a double shock
since it happened on the back of street
protests that had already dented tourist
arrivals in the territory
Joy's phone manager of the happy star
travel hadn't seen business so bad even
during the SARS epidemic now most
travelers have canceled the tickets or
have postponed their plans other case I
hold on in I told me don't go yet check
girl hi yogi kneeling the family nurse
acid on Sarah
so he awake okay yeah check no I caught
a little high and watch it all and go
you come like um Chile Colorado
mega-popular yeah my teaching anything
hiya Rico photo marketing come you got
to I got my I got ya clerk inside later
anything she sang Garson gay come to
order unit fuckin traitor
yet you consider case the chocolate hi
gosani home final dog how many died car
you don't owe a hottie leader high seed
oil year caller hi yep check the fasten
the holy Daniel Pham some traveler
coming to height here is our high
integer or Google or yoga come die how
many how it goes all into male 2 hey
Mohan God all the hotties Hong segment
tell D and later horse here at our
hanger you'll actually see welcome young
on I call you old bicycle persona I can
soak a nice a person as a high India
the restricted measures adopted by China
and other nations have helped delay the
spread of the virus but the nation's
increasing isolation could have lasting
economic consequences as well economies
are shrinking and it will take months to
get back to normal once the virus
subsides Asia has also been virtually
locked down with countries adopting
emergency measures both economic and
social to halt the spread of the disease
and pull the economies back will these
measures were
[Music]
on march 12 2020 the World Health
Organization or WHL declared covert 19 a
global pandemic
since then the virus has spread to
around 200 countries and territories and
tens of thousands are dead outside China
manufacturing trade consumption
production and the movement of people
have been greatly affected and in many
cases halted the economies in Southeast
Asia happen especially hit hard since
all of them are closely linked with
China there was a lot of dependence upon
trade with China either trading to China
or taking goods from China to feed
factories in the system in Southeast
Asia
so the impact was already being felt
china was closing down and shutting down
trade for SCM was already falling
through the floor so that's a big
problem the region itself I think
Singapore has been tackling the virus
extremely well there on topic from the
very beginning
they've been taking measures the
contract tracing here is probably the
best in the world it helps being a
smaller country actually with good
systems in place and learning from
previous experiences the rest of
Southeast Asia now is playing catch-up
and I think a lot of them didn't quite
believe how bad it could become or
didn't quite believe that it was going
to be a big issue so someone I can
Indonesia as being pretty slow at
reacting anybody know he's gearing up 44
year old Calvin sim is the head of a
Singapore based semiconductor equipment
maker
WUF industry lopoliths the company has
supply chains across China and other
nations in Asia just like everyone else
sim was caught it totally unawares by
the sudden outbreak in Wuhan or how
damaging that could be for his company
things took a dramatic turn for the
worse just overnight his order book
which was overflowing last December went
to zero in two months before the new
year in fact towards the second half of
last year we were getting inquiries for
budgets to be approved beginning this
year or after Chinese New Year everybody
was pushing towards the first quarter of
this year but all these say inquiries
started to have delays in approval costs
when January came December January when
the thing hit or everybody was he was in
chaos to be honest millions of dollars
have been held up in terms of purchase
orders because of this virus from
January onwards tilden the Chinese New
Year period and till now there has been
zero enquiries
sym who has 38 employees and his small
scale enterprise has still managed to
keep his head above water at least for
now
employees have been asked to work from
home and none has been asked to leave so
far fortunately for ourselves we've been
good no layoffs no job losses just one
or two hit hit with the stay home notice
or quarantine measure they were
traveling previously a when they came
back after the Chinese New Year they had
to be quarantined for 14 days before he
come to work that disrupted my my my
operations and and besides that I think
everything is still intact
but the reality is the economic
contagion is spreading just as fast as
the disease itself governments in the
region are now scrambling to mitigate
the impact of the crisis Singapore has
unveiled ananda 3.6 billion u.s. dollars
in stimulus package to suffering the
economic damage from the ongoing
coronavirus outbreak together with the
previous two packages it has now set
aside almost 42 billion u.s. dollars or
around twelve percent of his GDP to help
businesses and households tied over the
month-long partial lockdown and stemmed
the surge in kovat 19 cases we've done
with it Singapore to a recession as well
we expect Singapore's growth to come in
at about minus seven percent this year
other Southeast Asian nations are also
facing a deep economic crisis Malaysia
has also announced an economic programme
to cushion the impact of kovat 19 among
others the semanas package comprises
special allowances for healthcare
providers one of cash aid a microcredit
scheme for small and medium-sized
enterprises
it will also be used to support
businesses and strengthen the country's
economy amid all the uncertainties as a
result of the pandemic
[Music]
Thailand has also unveiled a stimulus
package worth seventeen point six
billion dollars to lessen the impact of
the pandemic still the economic scenario
does not look rosy for the region as the
deep recession looms
we believe that where where Malaysia and
Thailand are concerned like to see
anywhere between minus 4 to minus 5
percent growth in talents cases because
unfortunately the country is also going
through his worst drought in 40 years
so that has actually affected the
incomes of the rural population and that
means that consumption has actually come
off the cliff second reason is that the
electronic sector was still not
recovering from the trade dispute that
the u.s. had with China last year and
that also affected Malaysia and
Singapore Korea and Taiwan the
electronics manufacturing heart of this
part of the world so electronics
manufacturing was also pretty much in
the doldrums thirdly the auto sector in
Thailand also collapsed last year
because the world right now is not
buying combustion engines now you have
the Corvette 19 affecting the economy
via tourism tourism as a percentage of
GDP is about 25% of the data economy and
as a multiplier it has a huge multiplier
effect for the other parts of the
economy as well so you have no tourism
you have a depressed auto sector
depressed electronic sector you have the
worst drought in 40 years put that all
together the Thai economy is really
really struggling as a result of it the
stimulus measures are substantial for
the time being but governments might be
called upon to do even more if the
situation doesn't turn for the better
in the near term the Singapore budget is
about targeting 2.1 percent of GDP in
deficits if you think about it if you're
going to be shut down for six months
eventually is half the yearly GDP and so
those measure were not going to be
enough for now and ice do i do see
government's having to do more if the
shutdown is gonna be that long so that's
a probably a downside scenario to be had
there will be a repricing of government
budgets again they need to do more
I think governments will try and look at
pumping in more money but they're gonna
try and make sure that money they're
pumping into the system is reaching
every part of the system and there's a
question mark around is that really
going to happen
now we saw with the previous financial
crash though they were in there bailing
out banks but people you know further
down the economic chain were not
receiving the benefit of that for this
crisis is different and they've got to
be aiming you know to get the money down
to the ordinary man on the street who's
running a small business or looking
after smaller businesses
Kelvin sim for one is glad that the
government has come in with a stimulus
package to ease the difficulties faced
by many companies and self-employed
persons who are having immediate cash
flow problems they're helping us here
and there
whether it's little or more but I see
that they're they're putting in the
effort
number one with this Malaysian border
locked down with these guys that we have
this needs to be accommodated in
Singapore um they are providing a $50
subsidy for per day per worker and I
mean it's it's not going to subsidize
the whole you know the whole amount but
I think it's a good gesture and and and
something that Singapore government
recognizes that industries people meets
the industry like us needs right and
second thing is I see that they are
working with the banks following
approvals and backing the banks to to
give out loans to the various companies
I mean did in the different industries
and that's something that I think that
you know that will help type some of us
through you know SMEs through this
difficult time the virus is causing
massive disruptions across the world
people are staying at home aborting
travel and shopping as much as possible
reducing demand for consumer goods and
energy
factory shutdowns at Osaka taled
production and disrupted supply chains
still some economists are hopeful that
the current level of disruption could be
managed if the number of new virus cases
begins to slow and China's factories
reopen soon the result will be a dent in
the Chinese economy in the first quarter
with a marginal impact on global growth
but if the virus continues to spread it
may force large parts of the economy to
go into hibernation if that happens the
world may be looking at an economic
damage far worse than previously
imagined
[Music]
China where the virus originated is
picking up the pieces after the pandemic
swept across Wuhan City and who Bay
Province factories are slowly opening
and supply chains are getting restored
the country has also reported a
flattening of the virus curve even if it
hasn't been able to halt the spread of
the deadly disease completely the fact
is the curve at 19 pandemic has exacted
a heavy toll on the country's economy
and finances analysts have predicted
that the GDP growth of the world's
second-biggest economy could sink to
just 1% or 2% this year compared to 6.1
percent last year
[Music]
coming out of the nightmare scenario the
challenge ahead for China is nothing
short of monumental will it still be
able to move towards realizing its China
dream as envisioned by presidency ting
ping in 2013 well it still emerges a
prosperous and dominant global power I
would say do not underestimate the
ability of the Chinese to be able to
come off in this way I would think that
comparing this to the rest of the crises
that have been through this is probably
you know the least painful in that sense
because of the fatality that they saw
was nothing six million people were
killed during the Cultural Revolution
this was just you know a few thousand
people so they will be able to move on
relatively quickly and on top of that
they have the fiscal firepower to
utilize if they want to and
infrastructure today is far more
resilient they're a lot more modern and
you know there are a lot more
forward-thinking as well and it will
still exist there may be some delays and
maybe some hiccups there may be some
repositioning in terms of policy going
forward but they will think about this
and they will be planning for all
eventualities as a result so the Chinese
dream I don't believe will be dashed
[Music]
but it may not be business as usual in
China after kovat 19 at least for the
near term and for many other countries
which are heavily linked to it
economically analysts believe these
countries and businesses will learn
valuable lessons from the crisis their
reliance on China has exposed many of
their shortcomings many of them are left
in the lurch following the massive
disruptions to business and supply
chains that was what happened to Kelvin
sim his company suffered a huge setback
when supplies of materials and
components said it to arrive from China
failed to reach their destination
following the outbreak for China we have
manufacturing partners to provide the
materials basically for graphite
tungsten ceramics and some plastics they
have been hit for a couple of weeks
before the Chinese New Year period till
I would say middle to end February but
they are manufacturing were running at
maybe 50% utilization that effect that
some of our supplies coming into from
there and affected our supplies to our
customers as well so but what we did was
to purchase enough to tide us Chu more
than maybe two months or three months
worth of parts for customers and
so far it's still manageable but if
another big storm hits again
we wouldn't know analysts believe that
the only way to get around the problem
is by diversifying production facilities
and supply chains and not source a large
chunk of the goods and materials from
China this is true in terms of global
supply chains it's also true
domestically in other words you have to
put in place contingency plans at
company level to try to avoid any such
situations like the one we are we are in
right now and although I have to say
that this is really impressive enter the
next crisis would be different so you
know it's always very difficult to to
put in place measures to cover and to be
ready to respond to any crisis in the
future even before covert 19 struck the
US and China already involved in a
bruisin trade war that had not only
taken a toll on the economies of the two
nations but also on the entire global
economy as well
but just as Washington and Beijing
reached a phase one trade deal in
January the virus struck wiping off all
the expected gains from the easing of
trade tensions between the two and
largest economies I think that as the
impact of lowering growth if not for the
treaty spirit group would have been in
about sixty six point eight to seven
percent but because of the trade dispute
growth was lowered to about six to six
point three percent with this crisis
with this curve in nineteen situation
Grove is now likely to come in at one
and half percent for this year before
rebounding next year to about four and a
half and then eventually to six percent
although us-china trade reduced China
trade services are from us reduce but
China's trade service from European
country from ASEAN country increase so
the whole overall trade servers is still
maintained at a similar level as last
year or 2018 so if you look at a
trafficker
what a fat china tray is not the tray
war is the is the disease is the virus
because the january/february run the
trade deficit china normally would not
run trade monthly trade deficit very
rare but in January in February we have
trade deficit it's not till the trigger
because trade war has been there for
over two years
but this due to that the virus although
China may have found the light at the
end of the tunnel
other countries are still struggling to
get ahead of the coronavirus the US has
now overtaken China in terms of the
number of cases Europe and the rest of
Asia are reeling from the onslaught of
the disease stock markets remain
volatile oil and gas prices have also
fallen though the oil price crash was
driven by Saudi Russian rivalry the
outbreak has added to the gloomy
scenario all around at this point in
time is not just talks Marcos is falling
even protective assets such as US
government bonds go are falling and this
tells me there's a sign of forced
selling because imagine cows because of
leverage in the systems so is
indiscriminate selling of any asset
classes that's happening right now it
has moved on from the stock markets the
impact of the virus the disruption of
supply chain to businesses and to people
who has borrowed money it's clearly
evident right now today
for small business owners recouping
massive losses is a major challenge they
may take months to regain the position
they were in before the crisis hit I
think for industry especially the local
wave effects we will be hit probably the
next quarter or three months down the
road when the rest of the industry hit
first and that would set us back
probably half year to one year in terms
of manufacturing in terms of technology
and was advancement our Indies and
things like that that says basically how
I feel that this industry will be IV
line the owner of a stage productions
company in Hong Kong is living on hope
after the outbreak wiped out all gains
she had made from her business she's
expecting the crisis to blow over in a
couple of months or else she might have
to close shop or Mogens hijo de la
pistola what we thought about ho tiger
Kayla come on hi Tony what's up Tony lon
welcome
though they may form fire although leung
mei-fun fire him on her I quote so
clear-cut I team Lindo all and gow
ascension also in some your legal forms
will cause all organs CIE asunto de hija
you and I holding we want anything there
how soon will businesses return to
normal
will China and the rest of the world be
able to bounce back from the worst
economic nightmare if so when at this
point in time the outlook looks rather
grim the disease is rampaging and
through Europe
the u.s. Southeast Asia India and other
nations most of them are under partial
or complete lock downs disrupting lives
and livelihoods of hundreds of millions
of people the International Monetary
Fund has warned the global economy is
heading for a recession it may be as
deep as the one in 2008 or worse I think
it's far worse because it's affecting
much more the economy as well so you
know the moment you've got Airlines
basically you aren't flying Airlines
will go bankrupt
that will mean airports Worden's money
that means other parts of the continent
lose money you're seeing entertainment
and social activities come to zero so
bars restaurants pubs clubs cinemas
theaters sports complexes they're all
going to be losing money and people
always in the jobs it's going to be far
more far-reaching I think and the 2008
financial crisis I think it will be
worse to be quite honest because 2008 it
was a severe economic disruption and a
financial disruption that affected the
real economy but today the uncertainty
is bigger to some extent because it's
something that is beyond the control of
policymakers I think the the key
consideration is going to be how long
does the economic disruption from the
corona virus outbreak persist and that
will add to a number of factors which
are building towards a global recession
so it's not our base case at the moment
but we see the risks certainly building
though the economic impact on a
short-term basis could be as bad if not
worse than what we saw in - doesn't eat
but in 2008 that was a situation that
took four or five years to reverse
because of the damage to the financial
system this situation around I highly
highly doubt that you would take us as
long to recover
because of the fact that you know the
financial system is pretty much intact
once you can get capital freely moving
again when you can ease the liquidity
constraints when you can ease the dollar
shortage in the system
you know things will come back to an
even queue but all bets are off if the
march of covet 19 is not halted and
infection and death rates continue to
rise some experts even wonder if there
will be a second or third wave of the
virus what does the future hold for
other nations in the near to medium-term
no one knows for now I don't have a
crystal ball but I do have a lot of
historical extreme scenarios to learn
from and learning from those crisis's
that we've seen back to early 1900s the
final destination is clear we have seen
this sort of crisis as before if you
sigh doomsday when you're in it but the
path eventually is a recovery the way of
getting there is unclear don't discount
the fact that the normalization can be
very quick in that sense and if it's
very quick where normalization is
concerned then they hit the global
economic hit may not be as severe as
what we are feeling
[Music]
you